README.md, before:

# SCMS FY25 Project Repo
Last updated 10/21/2024 by Kylene Hutchinson

## Overview
These are projects and tasks worked on by the SCMS unit during the Fiscal Year July 2024 - June 2025.  
- Please use the [Documentation Template](Doc_Template.md) as a README.md in your project folder for the creation of Project Documentation.
- Please add basic details about your project folders down below.

## Directory
| Name | Contributors | System | Notes |
| ---- | ------------ | ------ | ---- |
| [Divinity Library Preferred Citation](/divinity_library_prefercite) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Updates 'Yale Divinity School Library' to 'Yale Divinity Library' in the Preferred Citation Field in ArchivesSpace |
| [Controlled Values Cleanup](/controlled_value_cleanup) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Updates and merges the Controlled Values in the Enumeration tables in ArchivesSpace |
| [Preservica Compound Objects](/preservica_compound_objects) | Alicia Detelich | Preservica | |
| [Preservica Ingest Backlog](/preservica_ingest_backlog) | Alicia Detelich | Preservica | |
| [Special Collections Assessment Backlog](/sc_assessment_backlog) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Creates a series of reports and summaries describing the status of the Backlog Survey 2023. |
| [655$5 Report](/report_655_5) | Kylene Hutchinson | Voyager | Creates a Spreadsheet of bibnumber and mfhd ids for 655$5 fields. |
| [YCBA Title Update](/ycba_title_update) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace | Removes emph html tags from titles in specific archival objects in ArchivesSpace |
| [LCNAF URIS](/lcnaf_uris) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace | |
| [Lux Parent Query](/lux_parent_query) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace, Lux | Pulls a report of records that have both a child and a sibling without a child |
| [Reassociation](/reassociation) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace, DCS | |
| [YCBA Repository Merge](/ycba_repo_merge) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Transfers the records and merges the two repositories belonging to the YCBA in ArchivesSpace |
| [Preservica Notes for Records with DCS Images](/dcs_preservica_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Deletes the A copy of this material is available in digital form from Manuscripts and Archives. Contact Manuscripts and Archives at [beinecke.library@yale.edu](mailto:beinecke.library@yale.edu) to request access to the digital copy." note from records with an Aviary or DCS digital object attached. |
| [Top container rooms report](/top_container_rooms_report) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Adds a custom report to the yale-archivesspace-reports plugin for reports on top containers by room and building location. |
| [Published Preservica Notes](/published_preservica_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Unpublishes Preservica notes that were mistakenly published. |
| [Orphan Subject and Agent Records](/orphan_agents_and_subjects) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Deletes Agents and Subjects that are not linked to any records. |
| [Machine-Actionable Restriction Notes](/machineactionable_restriction_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Transforms free-text in access restriction notes into structured data dates. |
| [MUL Languages](/mul_languages) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Adds language subrecords to MUL language records with languages from the language notes field |
| [Trailing Zeros](/trailing_zeros) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Removes the unnecessary .0 at the end of extent numbers. |

Commit message:

Added ICCU 16th century Report Project; Added Container Summary Parentheses Project.

README.md, after:

# SCMS FY25 Project Repo
Last updated 01/07/2025 by Kylene Hutchinson

## Overview
These are projects and tasks worked on by the SCMS unit during the Fiscal Year July 2024 - June 2025.  
- Please use the [Documentation Template](Doc_Template.md) as a README.md in your project folder for the creation of Project Documentation.
- Please add basic details about your project folders down below.

## Directory
| Name | Contributors | System | Notes |
| ---- | ------------ | ------ | ---- |
| [Divinity Library Preferred Citation](/divinity_library_prefercite) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Updates 'Yale Divinity School Library' to 'Yale Divinity Library' in the Preferred Citation Field in ArchivesSpace |
| [Controlled Values Cleanup](/controlled_value_cleanup) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Updates and merges the Controlled Values in the Enumeration tables in ArchivesSpace |
| [Preservica Compound Objects](/preservica_compound_objects) | Alicia Detelich | Preservica | |
| [Preservica Ingest Backlog](/preservica_ingest_backlog) | Alicia Detelich | Preservica | |
| [Special Collections Assessment Backlog](/sc_assessment_backlog) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Creates a series of reports and summaries describing the status of the Backlog Survey 2023. |
| [655$5 Report](/report_655_5) | Kylene Hutchinson | Voyager | Creates a Spreadsheet of bibnumber and mfhd ids for 655$5 fields. |
| [YCBA Title Update](/ycba_title_update) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace | Removes emph html tags from titles in specific archival objects in ArchivesSpace |
| [LCNAF URIS](/lcnaf_uris) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace | |
| [Lux Parent Query](/lux_parent_query) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace, Lux | Pulls a report of records that have both a child and a sibling without a child |
| [Reassociation](/reassociation) | Tyler Wade | ArchivesSpace, DCS | |
| [YCBA Repository Merge](/ycba_repo_merge) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Transfers the records and merges the two repositories belonging to the YCBA in ArchivesSpace |
| [Preservica Notes for Records with DCS Images](/dcs_preservica_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Deletes the A copy of this material is available in digital form from Manuscripts and Archives. Contact Manuscripts and Archives at [beinecke.library@yale.edu](mailto:beinecke.library@yale.edu) to request access to the digital copy." note from records with an Aviary or DCS digital object attached. |
| [Top container rooms report](/top_container_rooms_report) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Adds a custom report to the yale-archivesspace-reports plugin for reports on top containers by room and building location. |
| [Published Preservica Notes](/published_preservica_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Unpublishes Preservica notes that were mistakenly published. |
| [Orphan Subject and Agent Records](/orphan_agents_and_subjects) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Deletes Agents and Subjects that are not linked to any records. |
| [Machine-Actionable Restriction Notes](/machineactionable_restriction_notes) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Transforms free-text in access restriction notes into structured data dates. |
| [MUL Languages](/mul_languages) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Adds language subrecords to MUL language records with languages from the language notes field |
| [Trailing Zeros](/trailing_zeros) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Removes the unnecessary .0 at the end of extent numbers. |
| [ICCU 16th Century Report](/iccu_16thcentury/report) | Kylene Hutchinson | Voyager | Creates a csv report from Voyager using SQL |
| [Container Summary Parentheses](/container_summary/parentheses) | Kylene Hutchinson | ArchivesSpace | Removes parentheses from the extent container summaries if the summary starts with a parenthesis. |
